.TH "cutes" "1" "Jolla Ltd." "Feb 11, 2013"
.SH "NAME"
.PP
cutes allows to run JavaScript files from the command line as also
QML files. cutes environment can be made available in QML context by
importing Mer.Cutes QML plugin.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fBcutes\fP [-h] \fIscript\d\s-2file\s+2\u\fP [script arguments]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
cutes is the Qt library JavaScript engine. cutes command provides the
way to run JavaScript files as shell scripts or to load QML UI with
cutes support.
.SH "COMMAND LINE OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\fB-h\fP\fP
show usage
.TP
\fB\fBscript\d\s-2file\s+2\u\fP\fP
name of the javascript or qml file to be executed,
files with .qml extension will be considered as 
QML UI files, other - as JS files
.TP
\fB\fB[script arguments]\fP\fP
arguments to be passed to javascript in
the \fBcutes.module.args\fP variable
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
.TP
\fB\fBCUTES\_LIBRARY\_PATH\fP\fP
contains colon-separated list of paths
to directories containing cutes extensions and JavaScript
modules, available for importing. By default cutes is trying to
add /usr/lib{,32,64}/cutes and /usr/share/cutes directories.

.TP
\fB\fBCUTES\d\s-2TRACE\s+2\u\fP\fP
number, if 0 or not defined - debug tracing in
cutes is disabled, otherwise debug tracing is
enabled. Also the number can be used by libraries
to enable tracing and change tracing level.
.SH "JAVASCRIPT CONTEXT"
.PP
cutes provides several objects/functions, available in executed
scripts. In qml context all variables are available only as members
of the \fIcutes\fP context variable. fprint is available only in pure js
context. The ideal purpose of the context is to resemble environment
used by popular js frameworks (like node.js or narwhal) to allow to
reuse modules written for 'em and also to provide smooth transition
for js developers using this frameworks.

.TP
\fB\fBprint\fP\fP
prints whitespace separated arguments to stdout
.TP
\fB\fBfprint(fd, args...)\fP\fP
fprint(dst, ...) prints whitespace
separated arguments to dst, where dst is QIODevice or 1 (stdout)
or 2 (stderr)
.TP
\fB\fBcutes\fP\fP
cutes global variable storing execution context. Also
available in qml context as a context variable
.TP
\fB\fBcutes.os\fP\fP
OS "name": can be any of ["linux", "macos",
"win32", "unknown"]
.TP
\fB\fBcutes.env\fP\fP
environment variables
.TP
\fB\fBcutes.path\fP\fP
Application library paths
.TP
\fB\fBcutes.include(path, is\d\s-2reload\s+2\u)\fP\fP
function to evaluate javascript
file by file name as a module. File name can be absolute or
relative to the directory where running script resides or to any
directory in the library path. It also has bool parameter telling
is module should be taken from cache if it is already loaded or
it should be loaded anew (so, module data will not be shared with
other modules run by current engine). module.exports (has also
reference called exports) is returned as a result of execution.
.TP
\fB\fBcutes.require(path)\fP\fP
similar to cutes.include but does not have
boolean 'is\d\s-2reload'\s+2\u parameter, so module will always be taken
from the cache
.TP
\fB\fBcutes.extend(path)\fP\fP
instructs engine to load cutes c++ extension
library
.TP
\fB\fBcutes.idle()\fP\fP
process events in cutes event loop, can be called
during long operations to improve
interactivity. This function can be unsafe
.TP
\fB\fBcutes.defer(fn)\fP\fP
defer execution of the \fBfn\fP until exit from
current execution context or until cutes.idle() is called
.TP
\fB\fBcutes.module\fP\fP
current module/file context. It resembles
node.js/narwhal module object.It has the following
members
.TP
\fB\fBmodule.args\fP\fP
list of command line arguments
.TP
\fB\fBmodule.exports\fP\fP
see \fIexports\fP below
.TP
\fB\fBmodule.cwd\fP\fP
current module working directory
.TP
\fB\fBmodule.loaded\fP\fP
is module already evaluated/loaded
.TP
\fB\fBmodule.filename\fP\fP
currently executed script file name
(e.g. in \fBcutes.include\fP it will be included script path name)
.TP
\fB\fBmodule.id\fP\fP
synomym for the cutes.module.filename
.TP
\fB\fBmodule.cwd\fP\fP
current working directory or directory
where currently executed/evaluated script is located
.TP
\fB\fBrequire\fP\fP
synonym for cutes.require, compatible with other
module systems, returns symbols exported by module
.TP
\fB\fBexports\fP\fP
object to be used to hold exported symbols, it is just
reference to the current module.exports
.SH "AUTHOR"
.PP
Denis Zalevskiy <denis.zalevskiy@jollamobile.com>
.SH "LICENSING"
.PP
cutes is distributed under terms and conditions of the LGPLv2
license.
